---
title: Getting along with others
date: 2019-11-01 14:07 -500
categories: [dba]
tags: [rant]
redirect_from: /post/2019/11/01/cant-we-just-get-along/
---

# Wait, not everyone always agrees?

when it comes to working with other people it is always best to remember that others are not always on the same page. In fact, when dealing with others that work alongside you, it is imperative to remember they are most likely to see and evaluate issues and opportunities differently from you, especially when you work in different technologies. These differences typically are what makes teams work so well and helps everyone get along.

I recently had an interaction with a colleague who is a developer. This interaction came about when another DBA and I saw a query come across our monitoring tool in a different fashion. The conversation went from a question with the purpose of trying to understand what the developers were doing to sliding off the rails because the initial explanation was dismissive.  Which led to the DBA's questioning the security and performance of the developer's new strategy. What came next was just appalling. The developer responded with some snide remark about questioning their approach, their intent was beyond the understanding of the DBAs, and source control was the main objective.

I have to admit, I was left floored. In all my time in IT, I don't think I have ever been patronized or dismissed so out of hand because I questioned the performance impacts of a development approach in regards to a database server. I also understand that source control is the new hotness and all the rage, but writing code strictly for the sake of better source control sacrifices performance.

Developers and DBAs should be working together. Lord knows most DBAs do not understand all of the implications and complexity of writing front end code, and the same is true of developers with SQL. Getting along is what makes the late nights easier, the troubleshooting faster, and inevitable pissing matches less. It also removes the resentment that leads to higher turnover.