---
title: 2020 - A hot mess
date: 2021-01-22 12:25 -500
categories: [dba,personal]
tags: [review,pandemic]
---

# 2022 was a hot mess

The last year has been full of incredible changes. I was hopeful 2021 would get off to a better start than 2020, but alas, that doesn't seem to the case. So many things have changed in the last year, it's almost impossible to keep track of them all.

## Changes

Just some of the things I have experienced in the last year:

- Transitioned to working from home fulltime (like so many others) 
    - Experienced the difficulty of not taking enough breaks 
    - Failing to completely unplug on days off and vacation
- My exercise routine was destroyed and remains in shambles
- Have not made the time to work on professional training
- Rode the emotional waves of the pandemic - from hopeful to despair
- Spent way too much time watching tv
- Have not blogged in a while
- Thanks to losing the commute, podcast, and audiobook consumption have flatlined
- Lost one of my best friends suddenly

Most of these things are just the result of working through a new normal. I haven't made the time or put in the effort, to work on training. I've had a number of projects at work that I have allowed to manipulate my time. I haven't defined a schedule and kept to it to exercise or take breaks during the day. I freely admit that I have fallen into the trap of sitting down on the couch to unwind, turn the tv on....and hours later I realize it's time to go to bed. 

Then there are other things I have just flat out missed. In September I was thrilled to become a Pass Pro member, only to hear the news in late December that Pass was ceasing operations. Somewhere about early October, I stopped paying attention to the news and social media, way too much negativity. I occasionally poke my head up like a groundhog to see if anything has changed, then go back into my hole until the next check. 

## Some of the changes got harder

One of the hardest things I have had to endure in 2020 was losing one of my best friends to pneumonia and blood clots. Sadly, he wasn't in a good mental place the last time I talked to him and it ended in an argument. Which, given enough time it would have blown over, but before that happened, he died suddenly. So not only did I grieve the loss of my brother, I carry the guilt for our last talk being an argument. 

And well, then there was the election. Ya. I don't do political sides, I look at the issue. Like others, I have my opinions, but at the end of the day, I always try to remember we're all in this together. Sadly, I don't think others see it the same way anymore. 

## There is hope 

It hasn't been all bad though. I've taken the time to move this blog to AWS, which was trying and definitely a learning opportunity. At work, I have finally convinced the powers that be to purchase SQLSentry, so there is lots of learning going on there. I am now looking towards possibly shifting our SQL Server implementations to Windows Core. I am hoping to get an IaC approach to SQL Server deployments in place in the next 12-18 months. I'm also thinking interested in making encrypted connections the default connection method to SQL Servers. Finally, I hope to get better with AWS this year. 

Now that I have the blog moved over to AWS, I will be working on getting it optimized and everything working as it should. So many things. Finally, I hope 2021 shifts from being the ongoing dumpster fire that was 2020 to something more positive. 