---
title: Obsidian
date: 2022-04-03 09:51 -500
categories: [dba]
tags: [tools]
---

clean this up and make it about PKM

It's been another long stretch where I haven't blogged, and that lies with a lack of discipline on my part. There's also a part of me that hasn't known what to write about, maybe that's because I have been having a bit of an identity crisis lately. But I suppose I can get into that in a bit. Perhaps my blogging will get more consistent now that I have finally found a decent note taking platform.

Quick catch up. Since I spent lots of time overhauling the aesthetics of the blog in December, I have spent lots of time trying to wrap around developing build pipelines. My goal is to start using pipelines for everything, although I am finding it difficult to get that working. Part of the problem has to do with trying to do too much at once, and another part has to do with losing my training of thought when working on the pipelines. I so suppose I have to write about than I realized.

Obsidian

To address the scattered thought process, I have finally found a note taking platform that I can build a solid work flow around. I started using Obsidian and sync'ing it up using Git. It took a couple of days to work out the workflow, but it has been great and easy to implement. The best part is, it's adaptable to me. One of the features I like is the graph view, which allows you to tag topics or link posts which in turn kind of mind maps your thought processes. It's interesting to watch that grow.

The note taking has helped me clarify some thinking around the a fore mentioned identity crisis. Coming out of PASS I realized that the regular daily job of a DBA will shift to a DevOps approach, most likely by the end of the decade. I should probably write a post about my realization, but for the moment lets just leave it at I have realized the benefits of a DevOps approach. The identity crisis comes in realizing I need to change my thinking from that of a DBA to more of a Database Engineer.

Only, I have found the the topic overwhelming with no clear path, while at the same time excited to apply these new techniques only to be quickly frustrated applying the techniques is both hard and tedious. To which I have to remind myself that you have to start small and build on previous "blocks".

I should blog about these frustrations as a way to help myself work through them, or maybe catch the attention of a sympathetic reader who point in the correct direction. It's one of the reasons switching to Obsidian has been so great, I see the potential to create the blog posts almost effortlessly.